Dear shareholders:
Over the past 25 years at Amazon, I’ve had the opportunity to write many narratives, emails, letters, and
keynotes for employees, customers, and partners. But, this is the first time I’ve had the honor of writing our
annual shareholder letter as CEO of Amazon. Jeff set the bar high on these letters, and I will try to keep
them worth reading.
When the pandemic started in early 2020, few people thought it would be as expansive or long-running as
it’s been. Whatever role Amazon played in the world up to that point became further magnified as most
physical venues shut down for long periods of time and people spent their days at home. This meant that
hundreds of millions of people relied on Amazon for PPE, food, clothing, and various other items that
helped them navigate this unprecedented time. Businesses and governments also had to shift, practically
overnight, from working with colleagues and technology on-premises to working remotely. AWS played a
major role in enabling this business continuity. Whether companies saw extraordinary demand spikes, or
demand diminish quickly with reduced external consumption, the cloud’s elasticity to scale capacity up and
down quickly, as well as AWS’s unusually broad functionality helped millions of companies adjust to these
difficult circumstances.
Our AWS and Consumer businesses have had different demand trajectories during the pandemic. In the
first year of the pandemic, AWS revenue continued to grow at a rapid clip—30% year over year (“YoY”) in
2020 on a $35 billion annual revenue base in 2019—but slower than the 37% YoY growth in 2019. This
was due in part to the uncertainty and slowing demand that so many businesses encountered, but also in
part to our helping companies optimize their AWS footprint to save money. Concurrently, companies were
stepping back and determining what they wanted to change coming out of the pandemic. Many concluded
that they didn’t want to continue managing their technology infrastructure themselves, and made the
decision to accelerate their move to the cloud. This shift by so many companies (along with the economy
recovering) helped re-accelerate AWS’s revenue growth to 37% YoY in 2021.
Conversely, our Consumer revenue grew dramatically in 2020. In 2020, Amazon’s North America and
International Consumer revenue grew 39% YoY on the very large 2019 revenue base of $245 billion; and,
this extraordinary growth extended into 2021 with revenue increasing 43% YoY in Q1 2021. These are
astounding numbers. We realized the equivalent of three years’ forecasted growth in about 15 months.
As the world opened up again starting in late Q2 2021, and more people ventured out to eat, shop, and travel,
consumer spending returned to being spread over many more entities. We weren’t sure what to expect in
2021, but the fact that we continued to grow at double digit rates (with a two-year Consumer compounded
annual growth rate of 29%) was encouraging as customers appreciated the role Amazon played for them
during the pandemic, and started using Amazon for a larger amount of their household purchases.
This growth also created short-term logistics and cost challenges. We spent Amazon’s first 25 years building
a very large fulfillment network, and then had to double it in the last 24 months to meet customer demand.
As we were bringing this new capacity online, the labor market tightened considerably, making it challenging
both to receive all of the inventory our vendors and sellers wanted to send us and to place that inventory
as close to customers as we typically do. Combined with ocean, air, and trucking capacity becoming scarcer
and more expensive, this created extra transportation and productivity costs. Supply chains were disrupted
in ways none of us had seen previously. We hoped that the major impact from COVID-19 would recede as
2021 drew to a close, but then omicron reared its head in December, which had worldwide ramifications,
including impacting people’s ability to work. And then in late February, with Russia’s invasion of Ukraine,
fuel costs and inflation became bigger issues with which to contend.
So, 2021 was a crazy and unpredictable year, continuing a trend from 2020. But, I’m proud of the incredible
commitment and effort from our employees all over the world. I’m not sure any of us would have gotten
