through the pandemic the same way without the dedication and extraordinary efforts shown by our teams
during this period, and I’m eternally grateful.
It’s not normal for a company of any size to be able to respond to something as discontinuous and
unpredictable as this pandemic turned out to be. What is it about Amazon that made it possible for us to do
so? It’s because we weren’t starting from a standing start. We had been iterating on and remaking our
fulfillment capabilities for nearly two decades. In every business we pursue, we’re constantly experimenting
and inventing. We’re divinely discontented with customer experiences, whether they’re our own or not. We
believe these customer experiences can always be better, and we strive to make customers’ lives better and
easier every day. The beauty of this mission is that you never run out of runway; customers always want better,
and our job is both to listen to their feedback and to imagine what else is possible and invent on their
behalf.
People often assume that the game-changing inventions they admire just pop out of somebody’s head, a
light bulb goes off, a team executes to that idea, and presto—you have a new invention that’s a breakaway
success for a long time. That’s rarely, if ever, how it happens. One of the lesser known facts about innovative
companies like Amazon is that they are relentlessly debating, re-defining, tinkering, iterating, and
experimenting to take the seed of a big idea and make it into something that resonates with customers and
meaningfully changes their customer experience over a long period of time.
Let me give you some Amazon examples.
Our Fulfillment Network: Going back to the pandemic, there’s no way we could have started working on
our fulfillment network in March 2020 and satisfied anything close to what our customers needed. We’d been
innovating in our fulfillment network for 20 years, constantly trying to shorten the time to get items to
customers. In the early 2000s, it took us an average of 18 hours to get an item through our fulfillment centers
and on the right truck for shipment. Now, it takes us two. To deliver as reliably and cost-effectively as we
desire, and to serve Amazon Prime members expecting shipments in a couple of days, we spent years building
out an expansive set of fulfillment centers, a substantial logistics and transportation capability, and
reconfigured how we did virtually everything in our facilities. For perspective, in 2004, we had seven
fulfillment centers in the U.S. and four in other parts of the world, and we hadn’t yet added delivery stations,
which connect our fulfillment and sortation centers to the last-mile delivery vans you see driving around
your neighborhood. Fast forward to the end of 2021, we had 253 fulfillment centers, 110 sortation centers,
and 467 delivery stations in North America, with an additional 157 fulfillment centers, 58 sortation centers,
and 588 delivery stations across the globe. Our delivery network grew to more than 260,000 drivers
worldwide, and our Amazon Air cargo fleet has more than 100 aircraft. This has represented a capital
investment of over $100 billion and countless iterations and small process improvements by over a million
Amazonians in the last decade and a half.
Ironically, just before COVID started, we’d made the decision to invest billions of incremental dollars over
several years to deliver an increasing number of Prime shipments in one day. This initiative was slowed by the
challenges of the pandemic, but we’ve since resumed our focus here. Delivering a substantial amount of
shipments in one day is hard (especially across the millions of items that we offer) and initially expensive as
we build out the infrastructure to scale this efficiently. But, we believe our over 200 million Prime customers,
who will tell you very clearly that faster is almost always better, will love this. So, this capability to ship
millions of items within a couple days (and increasingly one day) was not from one aha moment and not
developed in a year or two. It’s been hard-earned by putting ourselves in the shoes of our customers, knowing
what they wanted, organizing Amazonians to work together to invent better solutions, and investing a
large amount of financial and people resources over 20 years (often well in advance of when it would pay
out). This type of iterative innovation is never finished and has periodic peaks in investment years, but leads
to better long-term customer experiences, customer loyalty, and returns for our shareholders.
AWS: As we were defining AWS and working backwards on the services we thought customers wanted, we
kept triggering one of the biggest tensions in product development—where to draw the line on functionality in
V1. One early meeting in particular—for our core compute service called Elastic Compute Cloud (“EC2”)—
was scheduled for an hour, and took three, as we animatedly debated whether we could launch a compute
service without an accompanying persistent block storage companion (a form of network attached storage).
