development process of working backwards from the customer where having to write a Press Release (to
flesh out the customer benefits) and a Frequently Asked Questions document (to detail how we’d build it)
helps us have blind faith without false hope (at least usually).
5/ Define a Minimum Loveable Product (MLP), and Be Willing to Iterate Fast: Figuring out where to draw
the line for launch is one of the most difficult decisions teams must make. Often, teams wait too long, and
insist on too many bells and whistles, before launching. And, they miss the first mover advantage or
opportunity to build mindshare in fast-moving market segments before well-executing peers get too far
ahead. The launch product must be good enough that you believe it’ll be loved from the get-go (why we call
it a “Minimum Loveable Product” vs. a “Minimum Viable Product”), but in newer market segments,
teams are often better off getting this MLP to customers and iterating quickly thereafter.
6/ Adopt a Long-term Orientation: We’re sometimes criticized at Amazon for not shutting much down. It’s
true that we have a longer tolerance for our investments than most companies. But, we know that
transformational invention takes multiple years, and if you’re making big bets that you believe could
substantially change customer experience (and your company), you have to be in it for the long-haul or
you’ll give up too quickly.
7/ Brace Yourself for Failure: If you invent a lot, you will fail more often than you wish. Nobody likes this
part, but it comes with the territory. When it’s clear that we’ve launched something that won’t work, we make
sure we’ve learned from what didn’t go well, and secure great landing places for team members who
delivered well—or your best people will hesitate to work on new initiatives.
Albert Einstein is sometimes credited with describing compound interest as the eighth wonder of the world
(“He who understands it, earns it. He who doesn’t, pays it”). We think of iterative innovation in much the
same way. Iterative innovation creates magic for customers. Constantly inventing and improving products for
customers has a compounding effect on the customer experience, and in turn on a business’s prospects.
Time is your friend when you are compounding gains. Amazon is a big company with some large businesses,
but it’s still early days for us. We will continue to be insurgent—inventing in businesses that we’re in, in new
businesses that we’ve yet to launch, and in new ideas that we haven’t even imagined yet. It remains Day 1.
Sincerely,
Andy Jassy
President and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
P.S. As we have always done, our original 1997 Shareholder Letter follows. What’s written there is as true
today as it was in 1997.
