Everybody agreed that having a persistent block store was important to a complete compute service;
however, to have one ready would take an extra year. The question became could we offer customers a
useful service where they could get meaningful value before we had all the features we thought they wanted?
We decided that the initial launch of EC2 could be feature-poor if we also organized ourselves to listen to
customers and iterate quickly. This approach works well if you indeed iterate quickly; but, is disastrous if you
can’t. We launched EC2 in 2006 with one instance size, in one data center, in one region of the world, with
Linux operating system instances only (no Windows), without monitoring, load balancing, auto-scaling, or
yes, persistent storage. EC2 was an initial success, but nowhere near the multi-billion-dollar service it’s
become until we added the missing capabilities listed above, and then some.
In the early days of AWS, people sometimes asked us why compute wouldn’t just be an undifferentiated
commodity. But, there’s a lot more to compute than just a server. Customers want various flavors of compute
(e.g. server configurations optimized for storage, memory, high-performance compute, graphics rendering,
machine learning), multiple form factors (e.g. fixed instance sizes, portable containers, serverless functions),
various sizes and optimizations of persistent storage, and a slew of networking capabilities. Then, there’s
the CPU chip that runs in your compute. For many years, the industry had used Intel or AMD x86 processors.
We have important partnerships with these companies, but realized that if we wanted to push price and
performance further (as customers requested), we’d have to develop our own chips, too. Our first generalized
chip was Graviton, which we announced in 2018. This helped a subset of customer workloads run more
cost-effectively than prior options. But, it wasn’t until 2020, after taking the learnings from Graviton and
innovating on a new chip, that we had something remarkable with our Graviton2 chip, which provides up to
40% better price-performance than the comparable latest generation x86 processors. Think about how
much of an impact 40% improvement on compute is. Compute is used for every bit of technology. That’s a
huge deal for customers. And, while Graviton2 has been a significant success thus far (48 of the top 50 AWS
EC2 customers have already adopted it), the AWS Chips team was already learning from what customers
said could be better, and announced Graviton3 this past December (offering a 25% improvement on top of
Graviton2’s relative gains). The list of what we’ve invented and delivered for customers in EC2 (and AWS in
general) is pretty mind-boggling, and this iterative approach to innovation has not only given customers
much more functionality in AWS than they can find anywhere else (which is a significant differentiator), but
also allowed us to arrive at the much more game-changing offering that AWS is today.
Devices: Our first foray into devices was the Kindle, released in 2007. It was not the most sophisticated
industrial design (it was creamy white in color and the corners were uncomfortable for some people to hold),
but revolutionary because it offered customers the ability to download any of over 90,000 books (now
millions) in 60 seconds—and we got better and faster at building attractive designs. Shortly thereafter, we
launched a tablet, and then a phone (with the distinguishing feature of having front-facing cameras and a
gyroscope to give customers a dynamic perspective along with varied 3D experiences). The phone was
unsuccessful, and though we determined we were probably too late to this party and directed these resources
elsewhere, we hired some fantastic long-term builders and learned valuable lessons from this failure that
have served us well in devices like Echo and FireTV.
When I think of the first Echo device—and what Alexa could do for customers at that point—it was
noteworthy, yet so much less capable than what’s possible today. Today, there are hundreds of millions of
Alexa-enabled devices out there (in homes, offices, cars, hotel rooms, Amazon Echo devices, and third-party
manufacturer devices); you can listen to music—or watch videos now; you can control your lights and
home automation; you can create routines like “Start My Day” where Alexa tells you the weather, your
estimated commute time based on current traffic, then plays the news; you can easily order retail items on
Amazon; you can get general or customized news, updates on sporting events and related stats—and we’re still
quite early with respect to what Alexa and Alexa-related devices will do for customers. Our goal is for
Alexa to be the world’s most helpful and resourceful personal assistant, who makes people’s lives meaningfully
easier and better. We have a lot more inventing and iterating to go, but customers continue to indicate that
we’re on the right path. We have several other devices at varying stages of evolution (e.g. Ring and Blink
provide the leading digital home security solutions, Astro is a brand new home robot that we just launched
in late 2021), but it’s safe to say that every one of our devices, whether you’re talking about Kindle, FireTV,
Alexa/Echo, Ring, Blink, or Astro is an invention-in-process with a lot more coming that will keep
improving customers’ lives.
