Prime Video: We started in 2006 with an offering called Amazon Unbox where customers could download
about a thousand movies from major studios. This made sense as bandwidth was slower those days (it would
take an hour to download a video). But, as bandwidth got much faster to people’s homes and mobile
devices, along with the advent of connected TVs, streaming was going to be a much better customer solution,
and we focused our efforts on streaming. In 2011, we started offering over 5,000 streaming movies and
shows as part of customers’ Amazon Prime subscriptions. Initially, all of our content was produced by other
studios and entertainment companies. These deals were expensive, country-specific, and only available to
us for a limited period; so, to expand our options, we started creating our own original shows. Our early efforts
included short-lived shows like Alpha House and Betas, before we had our first award-winning series in
Transparent, and eventually created multi-year franchises in The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, The Boys, Bosch,
and Jack Ryan. Along the way, we’ve learned a lot about producing compelling entertainment with memorable
moments and using machine learning and other inventive technology to provide a superior-quality streaming
experience (with useful, relevant data about actors, TV shows, movies, music, or sports stats a click away
in our unique X-Ray feature). You might have seen some of this in action in our recent new hit series, Reacher,
and you’ll hopefully see it in our upcoming Lord of the Rings series launch (coming Labor Day 2022). We
also expect that you’ll see this iterative invention when we launch Thursday Night Football, the NFL’s first
weekly, prime time, streaming-only broadcast, airing exclusively on Prime Video starting in September
2022. Our agreement with the NFL is for 11 years, and we will work relentlessly over the next several years
to reinvent the NFL viewing experience for football fans.
This track record of frequent invention is not only why more sports entities are choosing to work with
Prime Video, but also why so many large entertainment companies have become Prime Video Channels
partners. Channels is a program that enables entertainment companies to leverage Prime Video’s unique
technology and viewing experience, as well as its very large member base to offer monthly subscriptions to
their content. Companies like Warner Bros. Discovery, Paramount, Starz, Corus Entertainment, and Globo
have found that they’re driving substantial incremental membership and better customer experience
through Channels. While there is so much progress in Prime Video from where we started, we have more
invention in front of us in the next 15 years than the last 15—and our team is passionately committed to
providing customers with the most expansive collection of compelling content anywhere in the world.
This same sort of iterative invention can be applied to efforts supporting people and communities. Last
summer, we added two new Leadership Principles: Strive to be Earth’s Best Employer and Success and Scale
Bring Broad Responsibility. These concepts were always implicit at Amazon, but explicit Leadership
Principles help us ask ourselves—and empower more Amazonians at all levels to ask—whether we’re living
up to these principles.
For example, more than a million Amazonians work in our fulfillment network. In 2018, we championed
the $15 minimum wage (which is more than double the federal minimum wage), but haven’t stopped there. We
continued to increase compensation such that our average starting hourly salary is currently over $18.
Along with this compensation, we offer very robust benefits, including full health insurance, a 401K plan,
up to 20 weeks of parental leave, and full tuition coverage for associates who want to get a college education
(whether they remain with us or not). We’re not close to being done in how we improve the lives of our
employees. We’ve researched and created a list of what we believe are the top 100 employee experience pain
points and are systematically solving them. We’re also passionate about further improving safety in our
fulfillment network, with a focus on reducing strains, sprains, falls, and repetitive stress injuries. Our injury
rates are sometimes misunderstood. We have operations jobs that fit both the “warehousing” and “courier
and delivery” categories. In the last U.S. public numbers, our recordable incident rates were a little higher
than the average of our warehousing peers (6.4 vs. 5.5), and a little lower than the average of our courier and
delivery peers (7.6 vs. 9.1). This makes us about average relative to peers, but we don’t seek to be average.
We want to be best in class. When I first started in my new role, I spent significant time in our fulfillment
centers and with our safety team, and hoped there might be a silver bullet that could change the numbers
quickly. I didn’t find that. At our scale (we hired over 300,000 people in 2021 alone, many of whom were new
to this sort of work and needed training), it takes rigorous analysis, thoughtful problem-solving, and a
willingness to invent to get to where you want. We’ve been dissecting every process path to discern how we
can further improve. We have a variety of programs in flight (e.g. rotational programs that help employees
avoid spending too much time doing the same repetitive motions, wearables that prompt employees when
