they’re moving in a dangerous way, improved shoes to provide better toe protection, training programs on
body mechanics, wellness, and safety practices). But, we still have a ways to go, and we’ll approach it like we
do other customer experiences—we’ll keep learning, inventing, and iterating until we have more
transformational results. We won’t be satisfied until we do.
Similarly, at our scale, we have a significant carbon footprint. It’s a big part of why we created The Climate
Pledge a few years ago (a pledge to be net-zero carbon by 2040, ten years ahead of the Paris Agreement). We’re
making significant progress on this effort (we’re committed to powering our operations with 100% renewable
energy by 2025—five years ahead of our original target of 2030, we have ordered over 100,000 electric
vans to deliver packages, and have over 300 companies who’ve joined us in The Climate Pledge). But, we
have a different challenge than most companies given the diversity and intensity of our operations (including
shipping billions of packages per year). We’re committed to the challenge, but it will take relentless invention.
We also are trying to increase the amount of affordable housing in the communities in which we have a
large presence. Our more than $2 billion Housing Equity Fund that we started a year ago has already allocated
$1.2 billion toward affordable housing initiatives in the areas around Washington state’s Puget Sound
region, Arlington (Virginia), and Nashville (Tennessee).
A final quick example is Kuiper, our low Earth orbit satellite network that we’re spending over $10 billion
to build in the next several years. Kuiper will serve customers with minimal to no fixed broadband connectivity,
changing access to information and resources for many communities (analysts estimate approximately 300-
400 million customers globally are in this category). We’re optimistic that there is a pretty good business model
for us too, but we’ll see—and it’s a real game changer for underserved families and businesses that will
unfold over many years as we keep evolving its capabilities.
This type of iterative innovation is pervasive across every team at Amazon. I could have given comparable
examples in Advertising, Grocery, Gaming, Amazon Music, Amazon Care (our telemedicine offering), or
Pharmacy, to name a few. All of these stories are still being written as we rapidly experiment, learn, and
continue to try to make our customer experience better every day.
If this approach sounds appealing, a natural question is what’s required to get good at it? It’s easier said
than done, but here are some components that have helped us:
1/ Hire the Right Builders: We disproportionately index in hiring builders. We think of builders as people
who like to invent, who look at customer experiences, dissect what doesn’t work well about them, and seek
to reinvent them. We want people who keep asking why can’t it be done? We want people who like to
experiment and tinker, and who realize launch is the starting line, not the finish line.
2/ Organize Builders into Teams That Are as Separable and Autonomous as Possible: It’s hard for teams to be
deep in what customers care about in multiple areas. It’s also hard to spend enough time on the new
initiatives when there’s resource contention with the more mature businesses; the surer bets usually win out.
Single-threaded teams will know their customers’ needs better, spend all their waking work hours inventing
for them, and develop context and tempo to keep iterating quickly.
3/ Give Teams the Right Tools and Permission to Move Fast: Speed is not pre-ordained. It’s a leadership
choice. It has trade-offs, but you can’t wake up one day and start moving fast. It requires having the right
tools to experiment and build fast (a major part of why we started AWS), allowing teams to make two-way
door decisions themselves, and setting an expectation that speed matters. And, it does. Speed is
disproportionally important to every business at every stage of its evolution. Those that move slower than
their competitive peers fall away over time.
4/ You Need Blind Faith, But No False Hope: This is a lyric from one of my favorite Foo Fighters songs
(“Congregation”). When you invent, you come up with new ideas that people will reject because they haven’t
been done before (that’s where the blind faith comes in), but it’s also important to step back and make sure
you have a viable plan that’ll resonate with customers (avoid false hope). We’re lucky that we have builders
who challenge each other, feedback loops that give us access to customer feedback, and a product
