month flat fee, enables Prime members to get as many of the eligible prescription medications as they need
for dozens of common conditions, like high blood pressure, acid reflux, and anxiety. However, our customers
have continued to express a strong desire for Amazon to provide a better alternative to the inefficient and
unsatisfying broader healthcare experience. We decided to start with primary care as it’s a prevalent first stop
in the patient journey. We evaluated and studied the existing landscape extensively, including some early
Amazon experiments like Amazon Care. During this process, we identified One Medical’s patient-focused
experience as an excellent foundation upon which to build our future business; and in July 2022, we announced
our acquisition of One Medical. There are several elements that customers love about One Medical. It has
a fantastic digital app that makes it easy for patients to discuss issues with a medical practitioner via chat or
video conference. If a physical visit is required, One Medical has offices in cities across the US where
patients can book same or next day appointments. One Medical has relationships with specialty physicians
in each of its cities and works closely with local hospital systems to make seeing specialists easy, so One
Medical members can quickly access these resources when needed. Going forward, we strongly believe
that One Medical and Amazon will continue to innovate together to change what primary care will look like
for customers.
Kuiper is another example of Amazon innovating for customers over the long term in an area where there’s
high customer need. Our vision for Kuiper is to create a low-Earth orbit satellite system to deliver high-quality
broadband internet service to places around the world that don’t currently have it. There are hundreds of
millions of households and businesses who don’t have reliable access to the internet. Imagine what they’ll be
able to do with reliable connectivity, from people taking online education courses, using financial services,
starting their own businesses, doing their shopping, enjoying entertainment, to businesses and governments
improving their coverage, efficiency, and operations. Kuiper will deliver not only accessibility, but
affordability. Our teams have developed low-cost antennas (i.e. customer terminals) that will lower the
barriers to access. We recently unveiled the new terminals that will communicate with the satellites passing
overhead, and we expect to be able to produce our standard residential version for less than $400 each. They’re
small: 11 inches square, 1 inch thick, and weigh less than 5 pounds without their mounting bracket, but
they deliver speeds up to 400 megabits per second. And they’re powered by Amazon-designed baseband chips.
We’re preparing to launch two prototype satellites to test the entire end-to-end communications network
this year, and plan to be in beta with commercial customers in 2024. The customer reaction to what we’ve
shared thus far about Kuiper has been very positive, and we believe Kuiper represents a very large potential
opportunity for Amazon. It also shares several similarities to AWS in that it’s capital intensive at the start,
but has a large prospective consumer, enterprise, and government customer base, significant revenue and
operating profit potential, and relatively few companies with the technical and inventive aptitude, as well as
the investment hypothesis to go after it.
One final investment area that I’ll mention, that’s core to setting Amazon up to invent in every area of our
business for many decades to come, and where we’re investing heavily is Large Language Models (“LLMs”)
and Generative AI. Machine learning has been a technology with high promise for several decades, but it’s
only been the last five to ten years that it’s started to be used more pervasively by companies. This shift was
driven by several factors, including access to higher volumes of compute capacity at lower prices than was ever
available. Amazon has been using machine learning extensively for 25 years, employing it in everything
from personalized ecommerce recommendations, to fulfillment center pick paths, to drones for Prime Air,
to Alexa, to the many machine learning services AWS offers (where AWS has the broadest machine learning
functionality and customer base of any cloud provider). More recently, a newer form of machine learning,
called Generative AI, has burst onto the scene and promises to significantly accelerate machine learning
adoption. Generative AI is based on very Large Language Models (trained on up to hundreds of billions
of parameters, and growing), across expansive datasets, and has radically general and broad recall and
learning capabilities. We have been working on our own LLMs for a while now, believe it will transform and
improve virtually every customer experience, and will continue to invest substantially in these models
across all of our consumer, seller, brand, and creator experiences. Additionally, as we’ve done for years in
AWS, we’re democratizing this technology so companies of all sizes can leverage Generative AI. AWS is
offering the most price-performant machine learning chips in Trainium and Inferentia so small and large
companies can afford to train and run their LLMs in production. We enable companies to choose from
various LLMs and build applications with all of the AWS security, privacy and other features that customers
are accustomed to using. And, we’re delivering applications like AWS’s CodeWhisperer, which revolutionizes
