Over the last several months, we took a deep look across the company, business by business, invention by
invention, and asked ourselves whether we had conviction about each initiative’s long-term potential to drive
enough revenue, operating income, free cash flow, and return on invested capital. In some cases, it led to us
shuttering certain businesses. For instance, we stopped pursuing physical store concepts like our Bookstores
and 4 Star stores, closed our Amazon Fabric and Amazon Care efforts, and moved on from some newer
devices where we didn’t see a path to meaningful returns. In other cases, we looked at some programs that
weren’t producing the returns we’d hoped (e.g. free shipping for all online grocery orders over $35) and
amended them. We also reprioritized where to spend our resources, which ultimately led to the hard decision
to eliminate 27,000 corporate roles. There are a number of other changes that we’ve made over the last
several months to streamline our overall costs, and like most leadership teams, we’ll continue to evaluate
what we’re seeing in our business and proceed adaptively.
We also looked hard at how we were working together as a team and asked our corporate employees to come
back to the office at least three days a week, beginning in May. During the pandemic, our employees rallied to
get work done from home and did everything possible to keep up with the unexpected circumstances that
presented themselves. It was impressive and I’m proud of the way our collective team came together to
overcome unprecedented challenges for our customers, communities, and business. But, we don’t think it’s the
best long-term approach. We’ve become convinced that collaborating and inventing is easier and more
effective when we’re working together and learning from one another in person. The energy and riffing on
one another’s ideas happen more freely, and many of the best Amazon inventions have had their breakthrough
moments from people staying behind after a meeting and working through ideas on a whiteboard, or
continuing the conversation on the walk back from a meeting, or just popping by a teammate’s office later
that day with another thought. Invention is often messy. It wanders and meanders and marinates.
Serendipitous interactions help it, and there are more of those in-person than virtually. It’s also significantly
easier to learn, model, practice, and strengthen our culture when we’re in the office together most of the
time and surrounded by our colleagues. Innovation and our unique culture have been incredibly important
in our first 29 years as a company, and I expect it will be comparably so in the next 29.
A critical challenge we’ve continued to tackle is the rising cost to serve in our Stores fulfillment network (i.e.
the cost to get a product from Amazon to a customer)—and we’ve made several changes that we believe will
meaningfully improve our fulfillment costs and speed of delivery.
During the early part of the pandemic, with many physical stores shut down, our consumer business grew
at an extraordinary clip, with annual revenue increasing from $245B in 2019 to $434B in 2022. This meant that
we had to double the fulfillment center footprint that we’d built over the prior 25 years and substantially
accelerate building a last-mile transportation network that’s now the size of UPS (along with a new sortation
center network to assist with efficiency and speed when items needed to traverse long distances)—all in the
span of about two years. This was no easy feat, and hundreds of thousands of Amazonians worked very hard
to make this happen. However, not surprisingly, with that rate and scale of change, there was a lot of
optimization needed to yield the intended productivity. Over the last several months, we’ve scrutinized every
process path in our fulfillment centers and transportation network and redesigned scores of processes and
mechanisms, resulting in steady productivity gains and cost reductions over the last few quarters. There’s
more work to do, but we’re pleased with our trajectory and the meaningful upside in front of us.
We also took this occasion to make larger structural changes that set us up better to deliver lower costs and
faster speed for many years to come. A good example was reevaluating how our US fulfillment network was
organized. Until recently, Amazon operated one national US fulfillment network that distributed inventory
from fulfillment centers spread across the entire country. If a local fulfillment center didn’t have the product a
customer ordered, we’d end up shipping it from other parts of the country, costing us more and increasing
delivery times. This challenge became more pronounced as our fulfillment network expanded to hundreds of
additional nodes over the last few years, distributing inventory across more locations and increasing the
complexity of connecting the fulfillment center and delivery station nodes efficiently. Last year, we started
rearchitecting our inventory placement strategy and leveraging our larger fulfillment center footprint to move
from a national fulfillment network to a regionalized network model. We made significant internal changes
(e.g. placement and logistics software, processes, physical operations) to create eight interconnected regions in
smaller geographic areas. Each of these regions has broad, relevant selection to operate in a largely self-
sufficient way, while still being able to ship nationally when necessary. Some of the most meaningful and hard
