Beyond geographic expansion, we’ve been working to expand our customer offerings across some large,
unique product retail market segments. Grocery is an $800B market segment in the US alone, with the average
household shopping three to four times per week. Amazon has built a somewhat unusual, but significant
grocery business over nearly 20 years. Similar to how other mass merchants entered the grocery space in the
1980s, we began by adding products typically found in supermarket aisles that don’t require temperature
control such as paper products, canned and boxed food, candy and snacks, pet care, health and personal care,
and beauty. However, we offer more than three million items compared to a typical supermarket’s 30K for
the same categories. To date, we’ve also focused on larger pack sizes, given the current cost to serve online
delivery. While we’re pleased with the size and growth of our grocery business, we aspire to serve more of
our customers’ grocery needs than we do today. To do so, we need a broader physical store footprint given that
most of the grocery shopping still happens in physical venues. Whole Foods Market pioneered the natural
and organic specialty grocery store concept 40 years ago. Today, it’s a large and growing business that continues
to raise the bar for healthy and sustainable food. Over the past year, we’ve continued to invest in the
business while also making changes to drive better profitability. Whole Foods is on an encouraging path,
but to have a larger impact on physical grocery, we must find a mass grocery format that we believe is worth
expanding broadly. Amazon Fresh is the brand we’ve been experimenting with for a few years, and we’re
working hard to identify and build the right mass grocery format for Amazon scale. Grocery is a big growth
opportunity for Amazon.
Amazon Business is another example of an investment where our ecommerce and logistics capabilities
position us well to pursue this large market segment. Amazon Business allows businesses, municipalities,
and organizations to procure products like office supplies and other bulk items easily and at great savings.
While some areas of the economy have struggled over the past few years, Amazon Business has thrived. Why?
Because the team has translated what it means to deliver selection, value, and convenience into a business
procurement setting, constantly listening to and learning from customers, and innovating on their behalf.
Some people have never heard of Amazon Business, but, our business customers love it. Amazon Business
launched in 2015 and today drives roughly $35B in annualized gross sales. More than six million active
customers, including 96 of the global Fortune 100 companies, are enjoying Amazon Business’ one-stop
shopping, real-time analytics, and broad selection on hundreds of millions of business supplies. We believe
that we’ve only scratched the surface of what’s possible to date, and plan to keep building the features our
business customers tell us they need and want.
While many brands and merchants successfully sell their products on Amazon’s marketplace, there are also
a large number of brands and sellers who have launched their own direct-to-consumer websites. One of the
challenges for these merchants is driving conversion from views to purchases. We invented Buy with Prime
to help with this challenge. Buy with Prime allows third-party brands and sellers to offer their products on
their own websites to our large Amazon Prime membership, and offer those customers fast, free Prime shipping
and seamless checkout with their Amazon account. Buy with Prime provides merchants several additional
benefits, including Amazon handling the product storage, picking, packing, delivery, payment, and any
returns, all through Amazon Pay and Fulfillment by Amazon. Buy with Prime has recently been made
available to all US merchants; and so far, Buy with Prime has increased shopper conversion on third-party
shopping sites by 25% on average. Merchants are excited about converting more sales and fulfilling these
shipments more easily, Prime members love that they can use their Prime benefits on more destinations,
and Buy with Prime allows us to improve the shopping experience across more of the web.
Expanding internationally, pursuing large retail market segments that are still nascent for Amazon, and
using our unique assets to help merchants sell more effectively on their own websites are somewhat natural
extensions for us. There are also a few investments we’re making that are further from our core businesses, but
where we see unique opportunity. In 2003, AWS would have been a classic example. In 2023, Amazon
Healthcare and Kuiper are potential analogues.
Our initial efforts in Healthcare began with pharmacy, which felt less like a major departure from ecommerce.
For years, Amazon customers had asked us when we’d offer them an online pharmacy as their frustrations
mounted with current providers. Launched in 2020, Amazon Pharmacy is a full-service, online pharmacy that
offers transparent pricing, easy refills, and savings for Prime members. The business is growing quickly,
and continues to innovate. An example is Amazon Pharmacy’s recent launch of RxPass, which for a $5 per
