of the Amazon shopping experience for more than a decade. However, unlike physical retailers, Amazon
can tailor these sponsored products to be relevant to what customers are searching for given what we know
about shopping behaviors and our very deep investment in machine learning algorithms. This leads to
advertising that’s more useful for customers; and as a result, performs better for brands. This is part of why
our Advertising revenue has continued to grow rapidly (23% YoY in Q4 2022, 25% YoY overall for 2022
on a $31B revenue base), even as most large advertising-focused businesses’ growth have slowed over the last
several quarters.
We strive to be the best place for advertisers to build their brands. We have near and long-term opportunities
that will help us achieve that mission. We’re continuing to make large investments in machine learning to
keep honing our advertising selection algorithms. For the past couple of years, we’ve invested in building
comprehensive, flexible, and durable planning and measurement solutions, giving marketers greater insight
into advertising effectiveness. An example is Amazon Marketing Cloud (“AMC”). AMC is a “clean room”
(i.e. secure digital environment) in which advertisers can run custom audience and campaign analytics
across a range of first and third-party inputs, in a privacy-safe manner, to generate advertising and business
insights to inform their broader marketing and sales strategies. The Advertising and AWS teams have
collaborated to enable companies to store their data in AWS, operate securely in AMC with Amazon and
other third-party data sources, perform analytics in AWS, and have the option to activate advertising on
Amazon or third-party publishers through the Amazon Demand-Side Platform. Customers really like this
concerted capability. We also see future opportunity to thoughtfully integrate advertising into our video,
live sports, audio, and grocery products. We’ll continue to work hard to help brands uniquely engage with
the right audience, and grow this part of our business.
While it’s tempting in turbulent times only to focus on your existing large businesses, to build a sustainable,
long-lasting, growing company that helps customers across a large number of dimensions, you can’t stop
inventing and working on long-term customer experiences that can meaningfully impact customers and
your company.
When we look at new investment opportunities, we ask ourselves a few questions:
◦ If we were successful, could it be big and have a reasonable return on invested capital?
◦ Is the opportunity being well-served today?
◦ Do we have a differentiated approach?
◦ And, do we have competence in that area? And if not, can we acquire it quickly?
If we like the answers to those questions, then we’ll invest. This process has led to some expansions that
seem straightforward, and others that some folks might not have initially guessed.
The earliest example is when we chose to expand from just selling Books, to adding categories like Music,
Video, Electronics, and Toys. Back then (1998-1999), it wasn’t universally applauded, but in retrospect, it
seems fairly obvious.
The same could be said for our international Stores expansion. In 2022, our international consumer segment
drove $118B of revenue. In our larger, established international consumer businesses, we’re big enough to
be impacted by the slowing macroeconomic conditions; however, the growth in 2019-2021 on a large base was
remarkable—30% compound annual growth rate (“CAGR”) in the UK, 26% in Germany, and 21% in
Japan (excluding the impact of FX). Over the past several years, we’ve invested in new international
geographies, including India, Brazil, Mexico, Australia, various European countries, the Middle East, and
parts of Africa. These new countries take a certain amount of fixed investment to get started and to scale, but
we like the trajectory they’re on, and their growth patterns resemble what we’ve seen in North America
and our established international geographies. Emerging countries sometimes lack some of the infrastructure
and services that our business relies on (e.g. payment methods, transportation services, and internet/
telecom infrastructure). To solve these challenges, we continue to work with various partners to deliver
solutions for customers. Ultimately, we believe that this investment in serving a broader geographical footprint
will allow us to help more customers across the world, as well as build a larger free cash flow-generating
consumer business.
