Dear shareholders:
As I sit down to write my second annual shareholder letter as CEO, I find myself optimistic and energized
by what lies ahead for Amazon. Despite 2022 being one of the harder macroeconomic years in recent memory,
and with some of our own operating challenges to boot, we still found a way to grow demand (on top of
the unprecedented growth we experienced in the first half of the pandemic). We innovated in our largest
businesses to meaningfully improve customer experience short and long term. And, we made important
adjustments in our investment decisions and the way in which we’ll invent moving forward, while still
preserving the long-term investments that we believe can change the future of Amazon for customers,
shareholders, and employees.
While there were an unusual number of simultaneous challenges this past year, the reality is that if you
operate in large, dynamic, global market segments with many capable and well-funded competitors (the
conditions in which Amazon operates all of its businesses), conditions rarely stay stagnant for long.
In the 25 years I’ve been at Amazon, there has been constant change, much of which we’ve initiated ourselves.
When I joined Amazon in 1997, we had booked $15M in revenue in 1996, were a books-only retailer, did
not have a third-party marketplace, and only shipped to addresses in the US. Today, Amazon sells nearly every
physical and digital retail item you can imagine, with a vibrant third-party seller ecosystem that accounts
for 60% of our unit sales, and reaches customers in virtually every country around the world. Similarly,
building a business around a set of technology infrastructure services in the cloud was not obvious in 2003
when we started pursuing AWS, and still wasn’t when we launched our first services in 2006. Having virtually
every book at your fingertips in 60 seconds, and then being able to store and retrieve them on a lightweight
digital reader was not “a thing”yet when we launched Kindle in 2007, nor was a voice-driven personal assistant
like Alexa (launched in 2014) that you could use to access entertainment, control your smart home, shop,
and retrieve all sorts of information.
There have also been times when macroeconomic conditions or operating inefficiencies have presented us
with new challenges. For instance, in the 2001 dot-com crash, we had to secure letters of credit to buy
inventory for the holidays, streamline costs to deliver better profitability for the business, yet still prioritized
the long-term customer experience and business we were trying to build (if you remember, we actually
lowered prices in most of our categories during that tenuous 2001 period). You saw this sort of balancing
again in 2008-2009 as we endured the recession provoked by the mortgage-backed securities financial crisis.
We took several actions to manage the cost structure and efficiency of our Stores business, but we also
balanced this streamlining with investment in customer experiences that we believed could be substantial
future businesses with strong returns for shareholders. In 2008, AWS was still a fairly small, fledgling business.
We knew we were on to something, but it still required substantial capital investment. There were voices
inside and outside of the company questioning why Amazon (known mostly as an online retailer then) would
be investing so much in cloud computing. But, we knew we were inventing something special that could
create a lot of value for customers and Amazon in the future. We had a head start on potential competitors;
and if anything, we wanted to accelerate our pace of innovation. We made the long-term decision to
continue investing in AWS. Fifteen years later, AWS is now an $85B annual revenue run rate business, with
strong profitability, that has transformed how customers from start-ups to multinational companies to public
sector organizations manage their technology infrastructure. Amazon would be a different company if
we’d slowed investment in AWS during that 2008-2009 period.
Change is always around the corner. Sometimes, you proactively invite it in, and sometimes it just comes
a-knocking. But, when you see it’s coming, you have to embrace it. And, the companies that do this well over
a long period of time usually succeed. I’m optimistic about our future prospects because I like the way our
team is responding to the changes we see in front of us.
